.github/issue_template.md, before:

### Make sure to check the demo app(s) for sample usage 

### Make sure to check the existing issues in this repository 

### If the demo apps cannot help and there is no issue for your problem, tell us about it
Please, ensure your title is less than 63 characters long and starts with a capital
letter.

### Which platform(s) does your issue occur on?
- iOS/Android/Both 
- iOS/Android versions 
- emulator or device. What type of device?

### Please, provide the following version numbers that your issue occurs with:

- CLI: (run `tns --version` to fetch it)
- Cross-platform modules: (check the 'version' attribute in the
`node_modules/tns-core-modules/package.json` file in your project)
- Runtime(s): (look for the `"tns-android"` and `"tns-ios"` properties in the `package.json` file of your project)
- Plugin(s): (look for the version numbers in the `package.json` file of your
project and paste your dependencies and devDependencies here)

### Please, tell us how to recreate the issue in as much detail as possible. 
Describe the steps to reproduce it.

### Is there any code involved? 
 - provide a code example to recreate the problem 
 - (EVEN BETTER) provide a .zip with application or refer to a repository with application where the problem is reproducible.

Commit message:

docs(issue_template): link to Playground
Describe that sample code reproducing an issue can be provided in NativeScript Playground

.github/issue_template.md, after:

### Make sure to check the demo app(s) for sample usage 

### Make sure to check the existing issues in this repository 

### If the demo apps cannot help and there is no issue for your problem, tell us about it
Please, ensure your title is less than 63 characters long and starts with a capital
letter.

### Which platform(s) does your issue occur on?
- iOS/Android/Both 
- iOS/Android versions 
- emulator or device. What type of device?

### Please, provide the following version numbers that your issue occurs with:

- CLI: (run `tns --version` to fetch it)
- Cross-platform modules: (check the 'version' attribute in the
`node_modules/tns-core-modules/package.json` file in your project)
- Runtime(s): (look for the `"tns-android"` and `"tns-ios"` properties in the `package.json` file of your project)
- Plugin(s): (look for the version numbers in the `package.json` file of your
project and paste your dependencies and devDependencies here)

### Please, tell us how to recreate the issue in as much detail as possible. 
Describe the steps to reproduce it.

### Is there any code involved? Please provide any of the following:
 - code example to recreate the problem in [NativeScript Playground](https://play.nativescript.org/)
 - code sample in the issue
 - .zip with application or refer to a repository with application where the problem is reproducible.
